# Intelligent analytics hands-on lab step-by-step

## Abstract and learning objectives

This hands-on lab is designed to provide exposure to many of Microsoft's transformative line of business applications built using Microsoft advanced analytics. The goal is to show an end-to-end solution, leveraging many of these technologies, but not necessarily doing work in every component possible.

By the end of the hands-on lab, you will be more confident in the various services and technologies provided by Azure, and how they can be combined to build a real-time chat solution that is enhanced by Cognitive Services.

## Overview

First Up Consultants specialize in building software solutions for the hospitality industry. Their latest product is an enterprise mobile/social chat product called Concierge+ (aka ConciergePlus). The mobile web app enables guests to easily stay in touch with the concierge and other guests, enabling greater personalization and improving their experience during their stay. Sentiment analysis is performed on top of chat messages as they occur, enabling hotel operators to keep tabs on guest sentiments in real-time.

## Solution architecture

Below is a diagram of the solution architecture you will build in this lab. Please study this carefully so you understand the whole of the solution as you are working on the various components.

![The preferred solution is shown to meet the customer requirements. From right to left there is an architecture diagram which shows the connections from a mobile device to a Web Application. The Web Application is shown setting data to an Event Hub which is connected to a Web Job. From there Event Hub and Service Bus work together with Stream Analytics, Power BI and Cosmos DB to provide the full solution.](media/preferred-solution-architecture3.png "Solution architecture")

Messages are sent from browsers running within laptop or mobile clients via SignalR to an endpoint running in an Azure Web App. Chat messages received by the Web App are sent to an Event Hub where they are temporarily stored. An Azure Function picks up the chat messages and applies sentiment analysis to the message text (using the Text Analytics API), as well as contextual understanding (using LUIS). The function forwards the chat message to an Event Hub used to store messages for archival purposes, and to a Service Bus Topic which is used to deliver the message to the intended recipients. A Stream Analytics Job provides a simple mechanism for pulling the chat messages from the second Event Hub and writing them to Cosmos DB for archiving, and to Power BI for visualization of sentiment in real-time as well as trending sentiment. An indexer runs atop Cosmos DB that updates the Azure Search index which provides full text search capability. Messages in the Service Bus Topic are pulled by Subscriptions created in the Web App and running on behalf of each client device connected by SignalR. When the Subscription receives a message, it is pushed via SignalR down to the browser-based app and displayed in a web page. Bot Services hosts a bot created using QnA maker, which automatically answers simple questions asked by site visitors.

## Requirements

- Microsoft Azure subscription must be pay-as-you-go or MSDN.
  - Trial subscriptions will not work.
- A virtual machine configured with:
  - Visual Studio Community 2019 or later.
  - Azure SDK 2.9 or later (Included with Visual Studio 2019).
